# Identifying Bridges and Catalysts for Persistent Cooperation Using Network-Based Approach

The framework of iterated Prisoner's Dilemma (IPD) is commonly used to study direct reciprocity and cooperation, with a focus on the assessment of the generosity and reciprocal fairness of an IPD strategy in one-on-one settings. In order to understand the persistence and resilience of reciprocal cooperation, here we study long-term population dynamics of IPD strategies using the Moran process where stochastic dynamics of strategy competition can lead to the rise and fall of cooperation. Although prior work has included a handful of typical IPD strategies in the consideration, it remains largely unclear which type of IPD strategies is pivotal in steering the population away from defection and providing an escape hatch for establishing cooperation. We use a network-based approach to analyze and characterize networks of evolutionary pathways that bridge transient episodes of evolution dominated by depressing defection and ultimately catalyze the evolution of reciprocal cooperation in the long run. We group IPD strategies into three types according to their stationary cooperativity with an unconditional cooperator: the good (fully cooperative), the bad (fully exploitive), and the ugly (in between the former two types). We consider the mutation-selection equilibrium with rare mutations and quantify the impact of the presence versus absence of any given IPD strategy on the resulting population equilibrium. We identify catalysts (certain IPD strategies) as well as bridges (particular evolutionary pathways) that are most crucial for boosting the abundance of good types and suppressing that of bad types or having the highest betweenness centrality. Our work has practical implications and broad applicability to real-world cooperation problems, such as conceiving protocols of steering control and strategy intervention by leveraging catalysts and bridges that are capable of strengthening persistence and resilience.
